## Deployment Yaml


```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx-deployment
  labels:
    app: nginx
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: nginx
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: nginx
        image: nginx:1.16
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
```



1. `apiVersion: apps/v1`: This field specifies the Kubernetes API version and the kind of resource being defined. In this case, it's a Deployment in the "apps/v1" version.

2. `kind: Deployment`: This indicates that we are defining a Deployment resource. A Deployment is a higher-level Kubernetes object that manages the deployment and scaling of a set of pods.

3. `metadata`: This section contains metadata about the Deployment itself.

   - `name: nginx-deployment`: This assigns the name "nginx-deployment" to this Deployment. Names are used to uniquely identify resources within a Kubernetes cluster.

   - `labels`: Labels are key-value pairs that can be attached to Kubernetes resources. They are used to organize and select resources.

      ```
      labels:
        app: nginx
      ```
      In this case, a label with the key "app" and value "nginx" is attached to this Deployment.

4. `spec`: The `spec` section defines the desired state of the Deployment.

   - `replicas: 1`: This specifies that the desired number of pod replicas for this Deployment is 1. This means that Kubernetes will ensure there is always one instance of the specified pod running.

   - `selector`: This is used to match and select the pods controlled by this Deployment.

      ```
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: nginx
      ```
      Here, it's saying that it should select pods with the label "app: nginx".

   - `template`: This section describes the pod template that will be used to create new pods.

      ```
      template:
        metadata:
          labels:
            app: nginx
        spec:
          containers:
          - name: nginx
            image: nginx:1.16
            ports:
            - containerPort: 8080
      ```
      - `metadata`: This is metadata for the pods created by this Deployment. In this case, it sets a label "app: nginx".

      - `spec`: This is where you define the specifications for the containers within the pod.

         - `containers`: This is a list of containers within the pod. In this case, there is only one container.

           - `name: nginx`: This assigns the name "nginx" to the container.

           - `image: nginx:1.16`: This specifies the Docker image to use for this container. In this case, it's using the "nginx" image with version 1.16.

           - `ports`: This section defines the ports that should be exposed by the container.

             ```
             ports:
             - containerPort: 8080
             ```
             It's stating that the container will listen on port 8080.

This YAML file, when applied to a Kubernetes cluster, will create a Deployment called "nginx-deployment" with one replica, and it will use the nginx:1.16 image to create pods. Each pod will have a container named "nginx" listening on port 8080. The pods will also be labeled with "app: nginx".


## Service YAML



```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: nginx-service
spec:
  selector:
    app: nginx
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 8080
```



- `apiVersion: v1`: This indicates that the resource is using the Kubernetes API version 1.

- `kind: Service`: This specifies that the resource being defined is a Service. In Kubernetes, a Service is an abstraction that enables network access to a set of pods. It provides a stable endpoint to connect to, even if the underlying pods change.

- `metadata`: This section contains metadata about the Service. In this case, it specifies the name of the Service, which is "nginx-service".

- `spec`: This is where the specifications for the Service are defined.

  - `selector`: This is a way to determine which pods will be part of this service. In this case, it's selecting pods with the label `app: nginx`. This means that any pod with the label `app: nginx` will be included in this service.

  - `ports`: This is an array of port configurations.

    - `protocol: TCP`: This specifies that the protocol being used is TCP. TCP is the most common protocol for web services.

    - `port: 80`: This is the port on which the service will be exposed. This is the standard port for HTTP traffic.

    - `targetPort: 8080`: This is the port to which the traffic will be forwarded to inside the pods. So, any traffic received on port 80 of the service will be forwarded to port 8080 on the pods.

In summary, this YAML configuration is creating a Kubernetes Service named "nginx-service" that will route incoming TCP traffic on port 80 to pods with the label `app: nginx`, forwarding it to port 8080 inside those pods. This is typically used to expose a web server (like nginx) running in a Kubernetes pod to the external world.

## KUBERNETES

### Step1:

**On Master and Worker**

```bash
sudo apt-get update -y
sudo apt-get install docker.io -y
service docker restart  
curl -s https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg | apt-key add -  
echo "deb http://apt.kubernetes.io/ kubernetes-xenial main" >/etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
apt-get update
apt install kubeadm=1.20.0-00 kubectl=1.20.0-00 kubelet=1.20.0-00 -y  
```

### Step2:

**On Master node:**

```bash
kubeadm init --pod-network-cidr=192.168.0.0/16
```

### Step3:

**On Master node:**

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/.kube
sudo cp -i /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf $HOME/.kube/config
sudo chown $(id -u):$(id -g) $HOME/.kube/config
```

### Step4:

**On Master node:**

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/projectcalico/calico/v3.25.1/manifests/calico.yaml 
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/controller-v0.49.0/deploy/static/provider/baremetal/deploy.yaml
```

---

